docs-artifex/intro.mdx, before:

---
title: Task-specific LLMs for NLP and Text Classification | Tanaos Artifex
description: A Python library to create task-specific LLMs without training data, for offline NLP and Text Classification tasks, such as Guardrail Models and Intent Classification.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, python, library, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no training data, guardrail models, intent classification, offline nlp ]
id: intro
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { WEBSITE_BASE_URL, SYNTHEX_INTRO_URL, ARTIFEX_GITHUB_URL } from '../consts';


# About Artifex

Artifex is an <a href={ARTIFEX_GITHUB_URL} target='_blank' rel='noopener'>open-source Python library</a> developed 
by us at <a href={WEBSITE_BASE_URL} target='_blank' rel='noopener'>Tanaos</a> for:
1. Using **small, pre-trained task-specific LLMs locally on CPU** 
2. **Fine-tuning them on CPU without any training data** — just based on your instructions for the task at hand.

## The problem

LLMs available on the market can be broadly classified into two categories:

- <ins>General-purpose LLMs</ins> (GPT, Claude, Llama, etc.) have two main limitations:
  1. They are designed for open-ended tasks, which makes them **overkill and often suboptimal** for simpler, specific use cases.
  2. If open-source, they require **expensive GPUs** for training and inference; if not open-source, they incur **high costs** for usage via APIs and have **data privacy concerns** since your data is sent to 3rd-party servers.

- <ins>Smaller LLMs</ins> (DistilBERT, TinyBERT, etc.) can sometimes be trained and run locally on CPU, but they require **large amounts of labeled training data** to perform well on specific tasks — which is often **not available**.

## Artifex's solution

Artifex overcomes these limitations by enabling you to: 
- Use small (capped at 500 Mb in size), pre-trained task-specific LLMs **locally on CPU**, thereby eliminating costs and data privacy concerns.
- Fine-tune these models based on your requirements, **without any training data** — just based on your instructions for the task at hand — thereby obtaining higher accuracy on your specific use case.

  <details>
    <summary>How is it possible?</summary>
    Artifex generates synthetic training data on-the-fly based on your instructions, and uses this data to fine-tune small LLMs for your specific task. This approach allows you to create effective models without the need for large labeled datasets.
  </details>

## Installation

Install Artifex via pip:

```bash
pip install artifex
```

## Available Tasks

At this time, we support 7 main tasks:
- **Text Classification**: Performs general-purpose text classification based on the user requirements.
- **Guardrail**: Flags unsafe, harmful, or off-topic messages.
- **Intent Classification**: Classifies user messages into predefined intent categories.
- **Reranker**: Ranks a list of items or search results based on relevance to a query.
- **Sentiment Analysis**: Determines the sentiment (positive, negative, neutral) of a given text.
- **Emotion Detection**: Identifies the emotion expressed in a given text.
- **Named Entity Recognition (NER)**: Detects and classifies named entities in text (e.g., persons, organizations, locations).
- **Text Anonymization**: Removes personally identifiable information (PII) from text.   

We will be adding more tasks soon, based on user feedback. Want Artifex to perform a specific task? [Suggest one](https://github.com/tanaos/artifex/discussions/new?category=task-suggestions) or [vote one up](https://github.com/tanaos/artifex/discussions/categories/task-suggestions).

## Available APIs

For each task, Artifex provides three easy-to-use APIs:
1. **Inference API** to use a default, pre-trained small LLM to perform that task out-of-the-box locally on CPU.
2. **Fine-tune (or *train*) API** to fine-tune the default model based on your requirements, without any training data and on CPU. The fine-tuned model is generated on your machine and is yours to keep.
3. **Load API** to load your fine-tuned model locally on CPU, and use it for inference or further fine-tuning.

Commit message:

add docs for topic classification model

docs-artifex/intro.mdx, after:

---
title: Task-specific LLMs for NLP and Text Classification | Tanaos Artifex
description: A Python library to create task-specific LLMs without training data, for offline NLP and Text Classification tasks, such as Guardrail Models and Intent Classification.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, python, library, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no training data, guardrail models, intent classification, offline nlp ]
id: intro
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { WEBSITE_BASE_URL, SYNTHEX_INTRO_URL, ARTIFEX_GITHUB_URL } from '../consts';


# About Artifex

Artifex is an <a href={ARTIFEX_GITHUB_URL} target='_blank' rel='noopener'>open-source Python library</a> developed 
by us at <a href={WEBSITE_BASE_URL} target='_blank' rel='noopener'>Tanaos</a> for:
1. Using **small, pre-trained task-specific LLMs locally on CPU** 
2. **Fine-tuning them on CPU without any training data** — just based on your instructions for the task at hand.

## The problem

LLMs available on the market can be broadly classified into two categories:

- <ins>General-purpose LLMs</ins> (GPT, Claude, Llama, etc.) have two main limitations:
  1. They are designed for open-ended tasks, which makes them **overkill and often suboptimal** for simpler, specific use cases.
  2. If open-source, they require **expensive GPUs** for training and inference; if not open-source, they incur **high costs** for usage via APIs and have **data privacy concerns** since your data is sent to 3rd-party servers.

- <ins>Smaller LLMs</ins> (DistilBERT, TinyBERT, etc.) can sometimes be trained and run locally on CPU, but they require **large amounts of labeled training data** to perform well on specific tasks — which is often **not available**.

## Artifex's solution

Artifex overcomes these limitations by enabling you to: 
- Use small (capped at 500 MB in size), pre-trained task-specific LLMs **locally on CPU**, thereby eliminating costs and data privacy concerns.
- Fine-tune these models based on your requirements, **without any training data** — just based on your instructions for the task at hand — thereby obtaining higher accuracy on your specific use case.

  <details>
    <summary>How is it possible?</summary>
    Artifex generates synthetic training data on-the-fly based on your instructions, and uses this data to fine-tune small LLMs for your specific task. This approach allows you to create effective models without the need for large labeled datasets.
  </details>

## Installation

Install Artifex via pip:

```bash
pip install artifex
```

## Available Tasks

We currently support the following tasks:
- **Text Classification**: Performs general-purpose text classification based on the user requirements.
- **Guardrail**: Flags unsafe, harmful, or off-topic messages.
- **Intent Classification**: Classifies user messages into predefined intent categories.
- **Reranker**: Ranks a list of items or search results based on relevance to a query.
- **Sentiment Analysis**: Determines the sentiment (positive, negative, neutral) of a given text.
- **Emotion Detection**: Identifies the emotion expressed in a given text.
- **Named Entity Recognition (NER)**: Detects and classifies named entities in text (e.g., persons, organizations, locations).
- **Text Anonymization**: Removes personally identifiable information (PII) from text.
- **Spam Detection**: Identifies whether a message is spam or not.
- **Topic Classification**: Classifies text into predefined topics.

We will be adding more tasks soon, based on user feedback. Want Artifex to perform a specific task? [Suggest one](https://github.com/tanaos/artifex/discussions/new?category=task-suggestions) or [vote one up](https://github.com/tanaos/artifex/discussions/categories/task-suggestions).

## Available APIs

For each task, Artifex provides three easy-to-use APIs:
1. **Inference API** to use a default, pre-trained small LLM to perform that task out-of-the-box locally on CPU.
2. **Fine-tune (or *train*) API** to fine-tune the default model based on your requirements, without any training data and on CPU. The fine-tuned model is generated on your machine and is yours to keep.
3. **Load API** to load your fine-tuned model locally on CPU, and use it for inference or further fine-tuning.
