docs-artifex/spam-detection/train.mdx, before:

---
title: artifex.spam_detection.train() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use the .train() method to train a Spam Detection model with the Artifex library.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no training data, spam detection, train ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL } from '../../consts';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `spam_detection.train()`

        Fine-tunes a pre-trained Spam Detection model on user-specified instructions. **No training data 
		is needed**, as the model uses <Link to={SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL}>`synthex.jobs.generate_data()`</Link> under the
		hood to generate a synthetic training dataset based on the provided instructions.

		Both the base Spam Detection model [tanaos/tanaos-spam-detection-v1](https://huggingface.co/tanaos/tanaos-spam-detection-v1) 
		and previously trained models can be further trained using this method:
		- Fine-tune the base Spam Detection model:
			```python
			Artifex().spam_detection.train()
			```
		- Fine-tune a model that was previously trained with Artifex, in order to train it further: 
			```python
			Artifex().spam_detection.load("trained/model/path").train()
			```

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **spam_content** <ParameterTypeBadge>list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A list of strings, where each string describes a type of content that should be 
				classified as `"spam"` by the spam detection model.
			- **output_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the path where the output files will be generated. The output files consist of:
				- The training dataset
				- The output model `safetensor` and configuration files
			- **num_samples** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='500' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of datapoints that the synthetic training dataset should consist of, and 
				that the model will be trained on. The maximum number of datapoints you can train your model on depends on 
				whether you are on a free or paid plan.
			- **num_epochs** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='3' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of epochs to train the model for.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

spam_detection = Artifex().spam_detection

spam_detection.train(
    spam_content=[
        "Unsolicited commercial advertisement or non-commercial proselytizing",
        "Fraudulent schemes, including get-rich-quick and pyramid schemes",
        "Phishing attempts, unrealistic offers or announcements",
        "Content with deceptive or misleading information",
        "Malware or harmful links",
        "Adult content or explicit material",
        "Excessive use of capitalization or punctuation to grab attention",
    ]
)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

Commit message:

add language and device arguments

docs-artifex/spam-detection/train.mdx, after:

---
title: artifex.spam_detection.train() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use the .train() method to train a Spam Detection model with the Artifex library.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no training data, spam detection, train ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL } from '../../consts';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `spam_detection.train()`

        Fine-tunes a pre-trained Spam Detection model on user-specified instructions. **No training data 
		is needed**, as the model uses <Link to={SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL}>`synthex.jobs.generate_data()`</Link> under the
		hood to generate a synthetic training dataset based on the provided instructions.

		Both the base Spam Detection model [tanaos/tanaos-spam-detection-v1](https://huggingface.co/tanaos/tanaos-spam-detection-v1) 
		and previously trained models can be further trained using this method:
		- Fine-tune the base Spam Detection model:
			```python
			Artifex().spam_detection.train()
			```
		- Fine-tune a model that was previously trained with Artifex, in order to train it further: 
			```python
			Artifex().spam_detection.load("trained/model/path").train()
			```

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **spam_content** <ParameterTypeBadge>list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A list of strings, where each string describes a type of content that should be 
				classified as `"spam"` by the spam detection model.
			- **language** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='english' />\
				A string which specifies the language that the model will be trained to understand and perform inference in.
			- **output_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the path where the output files will be generated. The output files consist of:
				- The training dataset
				- The output model `safetensor` and configuration files
			- **num_samples** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='500' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of datapoints that the synthetic training dataset should consist of, and 
				that the model will be trained on. The maximum number of datapoints you can train your model on depends on 
				whether you are on a free or paid plan.
			- **num_epochs** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='3' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of epochs to train the model for.
			- **device** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the device to use. It can be one of the following:
				- `0` - Use the first GPU available
				- `1` - Use the second GPU available
				- ...
				- `-1` - Use the CPU
				
				If not specified, the method will automatically select the GPU if available, otherwise it will use 
				the CPU.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

spam_detection = Artifex().spam_detection

spam_detection.train(
    spam_content=[
        "Unsolicited commercial advertisement or non-commercial proselytizing",
        "Fraudulent schemes, including get-rich-quick and pyramid schemes",
        "Phishing attempts, unrealistic offers or announcements",
        "Content with deceptive or misleading information",
        "Malware or harmful links",
        "Adult content or explicit material",
        "Excessive use of capitalization or punctuation to grab attention",
    ],
    language="english"
)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
