docs-artifex/reranker/inference.mdx, before:

---
title: artifex.reranker() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use artifex.reranker() to perform inference with a Reranker model, without using a GPU.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no gpu, reranker models, search result reranking, inference ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `reranker()`

        Perform inference with a Reranker model, on a pair of inputs: a query string and a
		list of document strings. The model will rank the documents based on their relevance 
		to the input query, returning the documents sorted from most to least relevant and a
		relevance score for each document.

		If no model is loaded, the base Reranker model [cross-encoder/mmarco-mMiniLMv2-L12-H384-v1](https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/mmarco-mMiniLMv2-L12-H384-v1) 
		will be used by default. For more information on the base Reranker model,
		see the [model's Hugging Face page](https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/mmarco-mMiniLMv2-L12-H384-v1).

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **query** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge>\
                The input query string to rank the documents against.
			- **documents** <ParameterTypeBadge>str | list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A string or list of strings to be ranked based on their relevance to the input query.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Response'>
			A `list[tuple]`, each `tuple` containing a document string and a float value 
			representing the model's confidence in its relevance to the input query. The list 
			is sorted in descending order of relevance, with the most relevant document first.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

reranker = Artifex().reranker

ranked_documents = reranker(
    query="Best programming language for data science",
    documents=[
        "Java is a versatile language typically used for building large-scale applications.",
        "Python is widely used for data science due to its simplicity and extensive libraries.",
        "JavaScript is primarily used for web development.",
    ]
)
print(ranked_documents)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
[('Python is widely used for data science due to its simplicity and extensive libraries.', 3.83454), ('Java is a versatile language typically used for building large-scale applications.', -0.83086), ('JavaScript is primarily used for web development.', -1.37813)]
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

Commit message:

add docs for disable_logging argument

docs-artifex/reranker/inference.mdx, after:

---
title: artifex.reranker() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use artifex.reranker() to perform inference with a Reranker model, without using a GPU.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no gpu, reranker models, search result reranking, inference ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `reranker()`

        Perform inference with a Reranker model, on a pair of inputs: a query string and a
		list of document strings. The model will rank the documents based on their relevance 
		to the input query, returning the documents sorted from most to least relevant and a
		relevance score for each document.

		If no model is loaded, the base Reranker model [cross-encoder/mmarco-mMiniLMv2-L12-H384-v1](https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/mmarco-mMiniLMv2-L12-H384-v1) 
		will be used by default. For more information on the base Reranker model,
		see the [model's Hugging Face page](https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/mmarco-mMiniLMv2-L12-H384-v1).

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **query** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge>\
                The input query string to rank the documents against.
			- **documents** <ParameterTypeBadge>str | list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A string or list of strings to be ranked based on their relevance to the input query.
			- **disable_logging** <ParameterTypeBadge>bool</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				If set to `True`, disables inference metric logging for this call. By default, logging is enabled.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Response'>
			A `list[tuple]`, each `tuple` containing a document string and a float value 
			representing the model's confidence in its relevance to the input query. The list 
			is sorted in descending order of relevance, with the most relevant document first.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

reranker = Artifex().reranker

ranked_documents = reranker(
    query="Best programming language for data science",
    documents=[
        "Java is a versatile language typically used for building large-scale applications.",
        "Python is widely used for data science due to its simplicity and extensive libraries.",
        "JavaScript is primarily used for web development.",
    ]
)
print(ranked_documents)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
[('Python is widely used for data science due to its simplicity and extensive libraries.', 3.83454), ('Java is a versatile language typically used for building large-scale applications.', -0.83086), ('JavaScript is primarily used for web development.', -1.37813)]
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
