docs-artifex/text-classification/inference.mdx, before:

---
title: artifex.emotion_detection() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use artifex.emotion_detection() to perform inference with an Emotion Detection model, without using a GPU.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no gpu, inference ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';
import { InfoBox } from '../../src/components/InfoBox';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `text_classification()`

        Perform inference with a trained Emotion Detection model, on a single input string or a list 
		of input strings. For each input string, this will return the predicted class label, which 
		is one of the classes that the model was trained on.

		<InfoBox type='warning'>
			Prior to perform inference with this method, you **must train a model** using the 
			[`emotion_detection.train()`](/artifex/text-classification/train) method. If you have 
			not trained a model yet, calling this method will either raise an error or return 
			unreliable results.
		</InfoBox>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **text** <ParameterTypeBadge>str | list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
                A string or a list of strings to classify. The model will return a label for each input string.
			- **device** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the device to use. It can be one of the following:
				- `0` - Use the first GPU available
				- `1` - Use the second GPU available
				- ...
				- `-1` - Use the CPU
				
				If not specified, the method will automatically select the GPU if available, otherwise it will use 
				the CPU.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Response'>
			A `list[dict]`, each `dict` containing a `"label"` key with the predicted label for 
			the corresponding input string, and a `"score"` key with a float value representing 
			the model's confidence in its prediction.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

# IMPORTANT: Make sure to train your Text Classification model first using the
# text_classification.train() method, before performing inference with it. If
# you have not trained a model yet, calling this method will either raise an
# error or return unreliable results.

text_classification = Artifex().text_classification

print(text_classification("How are you doing?"))
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
[{'label': '<LABEL_NAME>', 'score': '<CONFIDENCE_SCORE>'}]
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

Commit message:

add docs for disable_logging argument

docs-artifex/text-classification/inference.mdx, after:

---
title: artifex.text_classification() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use artifex.text_classification() to perform inference with a Text Classification model, without using a GPU.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no gpu, inference ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';
import { InfoBox } from '../../src/components/InfoBox';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `text_classification()`

        Perform inference with a trained Emotion Detection model, on a single input string or a list 
		of input strings. For each input string, this will return the predicted class label, which 
		is one of the classes that the model was trained on.

		<InfoBox type='warning'>
			Before performing inference with this method, you **must train a model** using the 
			[`emotion_detection.train()`](/artifex/text-classification/train) method. If you have 
			not trained a model yet, calling this method will either raise an error or return 
			unreliable results.
		</InfoBox>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **text** <ParameterTypeBadge>str | list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
                A string or a list of strings to classify. The model will return a label for each input string.
			- **device** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the device to use. It can be one of the following:
				- `0` - Use the first GPU available
				- `1` - Use the second GPU available
				- ...
				- `-1` - Use the CPU
				
				If not specified, the method will automatically select the GPU if available, otherwise it will use 
				the CPU.
			- **disable_logging** <ParameterTypeBadge>bool</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				If set to `True`, disables inference metric logging for this call. By default, logging is enabled.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Response'>
			A `list[dict]`, each `dict` containing a `"label"` key with the predicted label for 
			the corresponding input string, and a `"score"` key with a float value representing 
			the model's confidence in its prediction.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

# IMPORTANT: Make sure to train your Text Classification model first using the
# text_classification.train() method, before performing inference with it. If
# you have not trained a model yet, calling this method will either raise an
# error or return unreliable results.

text_classification = Artifex().text_classification

print(text_classification("How are you doing?"))
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
[{'label': '<LABEL_NAME>', 'score': '<CONFIDENCE_SCORE>'}]
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
