docs-artifex/text-classification/train.mdx, before:

---
title: artifex.emotion_detection.train() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use the .train() method to train an Emotion Detection model with the Artifex library.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no training data, train ]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL } from '../../consts';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';
import { InfoBox } from '../../src/components/InfoBox';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `text_classification.train()`

        Trains a Text Classification model on user-specified classes and domain. 
		**No training data is needed**, as the model uses 
		<Link to={SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL}>`synthex.jobs.generate_data()`</Link> under the
		hood to generate a synthetic training dataset based on the provided classes and domain.

		<InfoBox type='info'>
			Unlike most other tasks that can be performed with Artifex, Text Classification **does 
			not** come with a pre-trained model that can be used out-of-the-box. This is because
			Text Classification is a general task that can be applied to a wide variety of domains
			and use-cases, each requiring different classes to be recognized. Therefore, users
			need to train their own Text Classification models using this method.
		</InfoBox>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **domain** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A string which specifies the domain or area that the model will be specialized in.
			- **classes** <ParameterTypeBadge>dict[str, str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A dictionary, where each key is the name of a class (must be maximum 20 characters with no
				spaces), and each value is the description of that class.
			- **output_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the path where the output files will be generated. 
				The output files consist of:
				- The training dataset
				- The output model `safetensor` and configuration files
			- **num_samples** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='500' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of datapoints that the synthetic training dataset should consist of, and 
				that the model will be trained on. The maximum number of datapoints you can train your model on depends on 
				whether you are on a free or paid plan.
			- **num_epochs** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='3' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of epochs to train the model for.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

text_classification = Artifex().text_classification

text_classification.train(
    domain="chatbot conversations",
    classes={
        "politics": "Messages related to political topics and discussions.",
        "sports": "Messages related to sports events and activities.",
        "technology": "Messages about technology, gadgets, and software.",
        "entertainment": "Messages about movies, music, and other entertainment forms.",
        "health": "Messages related to health, wellness, and medical topics.",
    }
)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

Commit message:

add language and device arguments

docs-artifex/text-classification/train.mdx, after:

---
title: artifex.emotion_detection.train() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use the .train() method to train an Emotion Detection model with the Artifex library.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no training data, train ]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL } from '../../consts';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';
import { InfoBox } from '../../src/components/InfoBox';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `text_classification.train()`

        Trains a Text Classification model on user-specified classes and domain. 
		**No training data is needed**, as the model uses 
		<Link to={SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL}>`synthex.jobs.generate_data()`</Link> under the
		hood to generate a synthetic training dataset based on the provided classes and domain.

		<InfoBox type='info'>
			Unlike most other tasks that can be performed with Artifex, Text Classification **does 
			not** come with a pre-trained model that can be used out-of-the-box. This is because
			Text Classification is a general task that can be applied to a wide variety of domains
			and use-cases, each requiring different classes to be recognized. Therefore, users
			need to train their own Text Classification models using this method.
		</InfoBox>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **domain** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A string which specifies the domain or area that the model will be specialized in.
			- **classes** <ParameterTypeBadge>dict[str, str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A dictionary, where each key is the name of a class (must be maximum 20 characters with no
				spaces), and each value is the description of that class.
			- **language** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='english' />\
				A string which specifies the language that the model will be trained to understand and perform inference in.
			- **output_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the path where the output files will be generated. 
				The output files consist of:
				- The training dataset
				- The output model `safetensor` and configuration files
			- **num_samples** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='500' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of datapoints that the synthetic training dataset should consist of, and 
				that the model will be trained on. The maximum number of datapoints you can train your model on depends on 
				whether you are on a free or paid plan.
			- **num_epochs** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='3' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of epochs to train the model for.
			- **device** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the device to use. It can be one of the following:
				- `0` - Use the first GPU available
				- `1` - Use the second GPU available
				- ...
				- `-1` - Use the CPU
				
				If not specified, the method will automatically select the GPU if available, otherwise it will use 
				the CPU.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

text_classification = Artifex().text_classification

text_classification.train(
    domain="chatbot conversations",
    language="english",
    classes={
        "politics": "Messages related to political topics and discussions.",
        "sports": "Messages related to sports events and activities.",
        "technology": "Messages about technology, gadgets, and software.",
        "entertainment": "Messages about movies, music, and other entertainment forms.",
        "health": "Messages related to health, wellness, and medical topics.",
    }
)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
