docs-artifex/guardrail/train.mdx, before:

---
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { PLATFORM_BASE_URL, SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL } from '../../consts';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # Train Guardrail

        Train a Guardrail model. **No training data is needed**, as the model uses 
		<Link to={SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL}>`synthex.jobs.generate_data()`</Link> under the
		hood to generate a synthetic training dataset based on the provided requirements.

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **instructions** <ParameterTypeBadge>list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A list of strings, where each string describes a something that the Guardrail should prevent
				the chatbot from doing, or allow it to do.
			- **output_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the path where the output files will be generated. The output files consist of:
				- The training dataset
				- The output model `safetensor` and configuration files
			- **num_samples** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='500' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of datapoints that the synthetic training dataset should consist of, and 
				that the model will be trained on. The maximum number of datapoints you can train your model on depends on 
				whether you are on a free or paid plan.
			- **num_epochs** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='3' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of epochs to train the model for.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

guardrail = Artifex().guardrail

guardrail.train(
    instructions=[
        "Soft medical advice is allowed, but it should be general and not specific to any individual.",
        "Anything that is about cosmetic products, including available products or their usage, is allowed.",
        "Anything else, including hard medical advice, is not allowed under any circumstances.",
    ]
)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

Commit message:

add information on how to fine-tune an already trained model

docs-artifex/guardrail/train.mdx, after:

---
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { PLATFORM_BASE_URL, SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL, ARTIFEX_LOAD_GUARDRAIL_URL } from '../../consts';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # Train Guardrail

        Train a Guardrail model. **No training data is needed**, as the model uses 
		<Link to={SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL}>`synthex.jobs.generate_data()`</Link> under the
		hood to generate a synthetic training dataset based on the provided requirements.

		Training can be performed on both:
		- An untrained base model: 
			```python
			Artifex().guardrail.train()
			```
		- A previously trained model, in order to train it further: 
			```python
			Artifex().guardrail.load("trained/model/path").train()
			```

			For more information on the `load()` method, see the
			<Link to={ARTIFEX_LOAD_GUARDRAIL_URL}>`load()` method documentation</Link>.

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **instructions** <ParameterTypeBadge>list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A list of strings, where each string describes a something that the Guardrail should prevent
				the chatbot from doing, or allow it to do.
			- **output_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the path where the output files will be generated. The output files consist of:
				- The training dataset
				- The output model `safetensor` and configuration files
			- **num_samples** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='500' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of datapoints that the synthetic training dataset should consist of, and 
				that the model will be trained on. The maximum number of datapoints you can train your model on depends on 
				whether you are on a free or paid plan.
			- **num_epochs** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='3' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of epochs to train the model for.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

guardrail = Artifex().guardrail

"""
If you want to fine-tune an already trained model, 
load it first:

guardrail.load("path/to/trained/model")
"""

guardrail.train(
    instructions=[
        "Soft medical advice is allowed, but it should be general and not specific to any individual.",
        "Anything that is about cosmetic products, including available products or their usage, is allowed.",
        "Anything else, including hard medical advice, is not allowed under any circumstances.",
    ]
)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
