docs-artifex/text-anonymization/inference.mdx, before:

---
title: artifex.text_anonymization() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use artifex.text_anonymization() to perform inference with a Text Anonymization model, without using a GPU.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, token classification, no gpu, text anonymization, named entity recognition, inference ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { 
	ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge 
} from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `text_anonymization()`

        Perform inference with a Text Anonymization model, on a single input string or a list of input 
		strings. For each input string, this will return an anonymized version of the string, in
		which all Personally Identifiable Information (PII) have been replaced with a placeholder.

		If no model is loaded, the base Text Anonymization model [tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1](https://huggingface.co/tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1) 
		will be used by default. For more information on what Personal Identifiable Information 
		(PII) the base Text Anonymization model is trained to extract, see the [model's Hugging Face page](https://huggingface.co/tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1).

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **text** <ParameterTypeBadge>str | list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
                A string or a list of strings to remove Personally Identifiable Information (PII) 
				from. The model will return a version of the input text(s) in which all 
				detected PII have been replaced with a placeholder.
			- **entities_to_mask** <ParameterTypeBadge>list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge>optional</OptionalParameterBadge>\
				A list of entity types to mask in the input text(s). If not provided, all 
				supported entity types will be masked. Supported entity types are 
				`"PERSON"`, `"LOCATION"`, `"DATE"`, `"ADDRESS"` and `"PHONE_NUMBER"`.
			- **mask_token** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge>optional</OptionalParameterBadge> <DefaultParameterBadge value="'[MASKED]'"/>\
				The placeholder string to use for masking detected PII. Default is `"[MASKED]"`.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Response'>
			A `list[str]`, one per input text. Each string is a version of the corresponding input
			string in which all detected Personally Identifiable Information (PII) have been replaced
			with a placeholder. 
		</APIDescriptionSection>

	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

ta = Artifex().text_anonymization

anonymized_text = ta("John Doe lives at 123 Main St, New York. His phone number is (555) 123-4567.")
print(anonymized_text)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
["[MASKED] lives at [MASKED]. His phone number is [MASKED]."]
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

Commit message:

add language and device arguments

docs-artifex/text-anonymization/inference.mdx, after:

---
title: artifex.text_anonymization() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use artifex.text_anonymization() to perform inference with a Text Anonymization model, without using a GPU.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, token classification, no gpu, text anonymization, named entity recognition, inference ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { 
	ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge 
} from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `text_anonymization()`

        Perform inference with a Text Anonymization model, on a single input string or a list of input 
		strings. For each input string, this will return an anonymized version of the string, in
		which all Personally Identifiable Information (PII) have been replaced with a placeholder.

		If no model is loaded, the base Text Anonymization model [tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1](https://huggingface.co/tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1) 
		will be used by default. For more information on what Personal Identifiable Information 
		(PII) the base Text Anonymization model is trained to extract, see the [model's Hugging Face page](https://huggingface.co/tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1).

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **text** <ParameterTypeBadge>str | list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge>\
                A string or a list of strings to remove Personally Identifiable Information (PII) 
				from. The model will return a version of the input text(s) in which all 
				detected PII have been replaced with a placeholder.
			- **entities_to_mask** <ParameterTypeBadge>list[str]</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge>optional</OptionalParameterBadge>\
				A list of entity types to mask in the input text(s). If not provided, all 
				supported entity types will be masked. Supported entity types are 
				`"PERSON"`, `"LOCATION"`, `"DATE"`, `"ADDRESS"` and `"PHONE_NUMBER"`.
			- **mask_token** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge>optional</OptionalParameterBadge> <DefaultParameterBadge value="'[MASKED]'"/>\
				The placeholder string to use for masking detected PII. Default is `"[MASKED]"`.
			- **device** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the device to use. It can be one of the following:
				- `0` - Use the first GPU available
				- `1` - Use the second GPU available
				- ...
				- `-1` - Use the CPU
				
				If not specified, the method will automatically select the GPU if available, otherwise it will use 
				the CPU.
		</APIDescriptionSection>

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Response'>
			A `list[str]`, one per input text. Each string is a version of the corresponding input
			string in which all detected Personally Identifiable Information (PII) have been replaced
			with a placeholder. 
		</APIDescriptionSection>

	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

ta = Artifex().text_anonymization

anonymized_text = ta("John Doe lives at 123 Main St, New York. His phone number is (555) 123-4567.")
print(anonymized_text)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
["[MASKED] lives at [MASKED]. His phone number is [MASKED]."]
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
