docs-artifex/text-anonymization/train.mdx, before:

---
title: artifex.text_anonymization.train() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use the .train() method to train a Text Anonymization model with the Artifex library.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, token classification, no training data, text anonymization, named entity recognition, train ]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL } from '../../consts';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `text_anonymization.train()`

        Fine-tunes a pre-trained Text Anonymization model on a user-specified domain. **No 
		training data is needed**, as the model uses 
		<Link to={SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL}>`synthex.jobs.generate_data()`</Link> under the
		hood to generate a synthetic training dataset based on the provided domain.

		Both the base Text Anonymization model [tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1](https://huggingface.co/tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1) 
		and previously trained models can be further trained using this method:
		- Fine-tune the base Text Anonymization model: 
			```python
			Artifex().text_anonymization.train()
			```
		- Fine-tune a model that was previously trained with Artifex, in order to train it further: 
			```python
			Artifex().text_anonymization.load("trained/model/path").train()
			```

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **domain** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A string which specifies the domain or area that the model will be specialized in.
			- **output_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the path where the output files will be generated. 
				The output files consist of:
				- The training dataset
				- The output model `safetensor` and configuration files
			- **num_samples** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='500' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of datapoints that the synthetic training dataset should consist of, and 
				that the model will be trained on. The maximum number of datapoints you can train your model on depends on 
				whether you are on a free or paid plan.
			- **num_epochs** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='3' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of epochs to train the model for.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

text_anonym = Artifex().text_anonymization

text_anonym.train(
    domain="medical documents",
)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

Commit message:

add language and device arguments

docs-artifex/text-anonymization/train.mdx, after:

---
title: artifex.text_anonymization.train() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use the .train() method to train a Text Anonymization model with the Artifex library.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, token classification, no training data, text anonymization, named entity recognition, train ]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL } from '../../consts';
import { ParameterTypeBadge, OptionalParameterBadge, DefaultParameterBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `text_anonymization.train()`

        Fine-tunes a pre-trained Text Anonymization model on a user-specified domain. **No 
		training data is needed**, as the model uses 
		<Link to={SYNTHEX_GENERATE_DATA_URL}>`synthex.jobs.generate_data()`</Link> under the
		hood to generate a synthetic training dataset based on the provided domain.

		Both the base Text Anonymization model [tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1](https://huggingface.co/tanaos/tanaos-text-anonymizer-v1) 
		and previously trained models can be further trained using this method:
		- Fine-tune the base Text Anonymization model: 
			```python
			Artifex().text_anonymization.train()
			```
		- Fine-tune a model that was previously trained with Artifex, in order to train it further: 
			```python
			Artifex().text_anonymization.load("trained/model/path").train()
			```

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **domain** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge>\
				A string which specifies the domain or area that the model will be specialized in.
			- **language** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='english' />\
				A string which specifies the language that the model will be trained to understand and perform inference in.
			- **output_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the path where the output files will be generated. 
				The output files consist of:
				- The training dataset
				- The output model `safetensor` and configuration files
			- **num_samples** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='500' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of datapoints that the synthetic training dataset should consist of, and 
				that the model will be trained on. The maximum number of datapoints you can train your model on depends on 
				whether you are on a free or paid plan.
			- **num_epochs** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge /> <DefaultParameterBadge value='3' />\
				An integer which specifies the number of epochs to train the model for.
			- **device** <ParameterTypeBadge>int</ParameterTypeBadge> <OptionalParameterBadge />\
				A string which specifies the device to use. It can be one of the following:
				- `0` - Use the first GPU available
				- `1` - Use the second GPU available
				- ...
				- `-1` - Use the CPU
				
				If not specified, the method will automatically select the GPU if available, otherwise it will use 
				the CPU.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

text_anonym = Artifex().text_anonymization

text_anonym.train(
    domain="medical documents",
    language="english"
)
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
