docs-artifex/intent-classifier/load.mdx, before:

---
title: artifex.intent_classifier.load() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use the .load() method to load an Intent Classification model in memory, without using a GPU, with the Artifex library.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no gpu, intent classification models, chatbot intent classification, load, in memory ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { ParameterTypeBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # Load a Model Checkpoint

        Load a model checkpoint to perform inference with it. Only model that were trained with Artifex can
        be loaded.

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **model_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge>\
                The local path to the model checkpoint to load. This should be a directory containing all the
                model files generated by Artifex, such as `config.json` and `model.safetensors`.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

intent_classifier = Artifex().intent_classifier

# NOTE: you must have a model checkpoint to load. Only
# models that were trained with Artifex can be loaded.

intent_classifier.load("/path/to/model/checkpoint")
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

Commit message:

update Guardrail and Intent Classification pages

docs-artifex/intent-classifier/load.mdx, after:

---
title: artifex.intent_classifier.load() | Tanaos Artifex
description: Learn how to use the .load() method to load an Intent Classification model in memory, without using a GPU, with the Artifex library.
keywords: [ artifex, tanaos, task specific llm, nlp, text classification, no gpu, intent classification models, chatbot intent classification, load, in memory ] 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import { APIDescriptionSection } from '../../src/components/APIDescriptionSection';
import { ParameterTypeBadge } from '../../src/components/ParameterBadge';


<div className='responsive-container'>
	<div className='text-container'>
        # `intent_classifier.load()`

        Load a model checkpoint to perform inference with, or to fine-tune it further. Only models 
		that were trained with Artifex can be loaded.

		<APIDescriptionSection title='Arguments'>
			- **model_path** <ParameterTypeBadge>str</ParameterTypeBadge>\
                The local path to the model checkpoint to load. This should be a directory containing all the
                model files generated by Artifex, such as `config.json` and `model.safetensors`.
		</APIDescriptionSection>
	</div>
	<div className='code-container'>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs>
				<TabItem value='python' label='Python'>
```python
from artifex import Artifex

intent_classifier = Artifex().intent_classifier

intent_classifier.load("/path/to/model/checkpoint")
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>
		</div>
		<div className='tabs-code'>
			<Tabs groupId="language">
				<TabItem value="response" label="Response">
```python
None
```
				</TabItem>
			</Tabs>		
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
